thank you
[Music]
good afternoon everybody
um the the I see 79 but to be honest I
don't believe it is that I I my
experience going in and doing agile
consulting which I do a lot of is that
the vast majority of companies that I
work with that think that they're being
agile or not
um that doesn't mean that they all
aren't as they're a bunch of perfectly
good perfectly agile companies out there
in the world but
uh truth to tell agile has come to to
mean something other than it means in
order to put it another way
um the word agile has been kind of
twisted around to the point where people
don't really even recognize it anymore
and the the obvious problem there is not
so much that the word is being messed
with but rather that uh if you're not
doing
things in an agile way then you're not
going to get the results that you expect
to get when you do things in a natural
way
so that's essentially what this talk is
about is I'm going to talk about what's
gone wrong I'm going to talk about how
to fix it about what agile actually is
what it should be and then at the end of
things we'll have some questions have
some time for questions
so first of all there's this notion of
agile being dead the death of agile
death of agile was a meme a few years
ago is that you saw a lot of talks about
the death Evangel I gave one myself Andy
Hunt gave one with the same title this
was completely random we both had
scheduled these stocks long before we
knew about each other's titles and
um the the problem was is that both of
us were seeing the same difficulty with
the way that agile is implemented out in
the real world uh the way that Andy put
it was that that agile has come to mean
do half of scrum badly and use jira and
there's some truth to that is that the
Jura is the work of the devil as far as
I'm concerned it is not a viable tool
for doing things in a natural way and in
fact tools like jira actually move
people away from agility is that the
tool itself kind of manipulates people
into
um
um not thinking in natural ways uh
there's a lot of stuff in jira that is
just wrong I think uh the idea of a of a
hierarchy of epics that contains stories
for example that's just really not the
way it actually works so the issue then
is that the tools are working against us
um the other the other
um with my clicker the there we go the
other issue um which is an important one
is that um is kept back uh catback was
one of The Originators of agile and
Quebec said I think uh quite reasonably
that
um agile has come to uh be a devastated
Wasteland to use his own tools his own
his own terms
um that the the
I'm paraphrasing here but basically what
he's saying is that it's become a
priesthood where the priests don't
really understand the rituals that
they're telling people to follow anymore
and that's a that's also I think quite
true is the the
more and more it's become a formulaic
way of working where the formulas are
again not well understood
so we need to fix that this agile really
is not agile anymore so let's talk about
the problems the first I'm going to do
this in the context of George Orwell
because I think that's very important
here so it actually works the first
issue is war is peace
okay
that was Orwell's uh one of the things
written on the side of the ministry of
information in Orwell's 1984.
so what does that mean is first of all
there's a tension
between what agile is and what agile is
supposed to be what the industry says it
is
um in in Orwell's book the notion of War
peace was you had a totalitarian state
who
was in a Perpetual state of War and what
they were saying is that you maintain
Peace by being in a Perpetual state of
War now the the fact is that that oops
sorry it's like technical problem here
uh this will take about two seconds to
fix
all right
um
the and we see that a lot in the agile
Community there is uh ongoing series of
process Wars between the people that
have well between people that have their
own processes to sell uh I was just I
got some advertising material from David
Anderson's kanban method the other day
that was basically attacking every other
agile method it was saying we have the
one true agile and everything else is
completely ineffective and you've
completely wasted your time and money by
dealing with it and you've got to go
take our course instead
um uh Jeff Sutherland who's pushing
agile certification with his scrum Inc
and also to some extent with the agile
Alliance
um Jeff has been hardcore about saying
scrum is the one true agile to the point
where there's been a quite a bit of
revisionism historically about how agile
worked is that back when I first learned
about agile ways of working or at least
formally agile ways of working the only
agile process that anybody had heard of
was extreme programming XP uh Kent
Beck's book extreme programming
explained was the first book on agile
that anybody had ever read nobody had
ever heard of scrum it wasn't until
three four five years later that scrum
started kind of coming onto the scene
and people started paying attention to
it and in fact scrum when it first came
onto the scene was uh
presented as a rapper around XP if you
go find the very first book on scrum
that was written by Ken schwabber and
Mike beedle back in the very early 2000s
on the back of the cover in big letters
it presents scrum as a rapper around XP
that makes XP more palatable if you will
to people in business so this notion
that scrum is agile and scrum came first
that's part of these process Wars is
that the the people who are pushing
certificates the people who are pushing
their own methods they're in constant
war with each other and they see that as
a good thing because it makes them money
so
so it that's not of course benefiting
any of us is that for one thing there
are too many companies that believe the
propaganda
and they come into the world of agile
thinking that agile is a specific thing
you can bring in a bunch of trainers and
the trainers will do their work and
um suddenly you'll be agile is that
you'll sprinkle around magic agile fairy
dust and poof the company turns into
agile and that's really not the way it
works is what we have in other words to
use Martin Fowler's term is an agile
industrial complex a bunch of
corporations that are making money by
pushing this false notion of agile onto
us and it might benefit those
corporations but it sure doesn't benefit
the companies that think that they're
agile
so what they're doing is not agile but
they nonetheless call it agile so let me
give you some examples is that
all agile processes Center work around
so-called self-organizing teams and by
self-organizing people really mean
self-organizing they really mean that
that the team gets to control how it
does its work
the team gets to control who's on the
team the team gets control gets to
control what it's working on
is that the team is is it's not
autonomous in the in the uh completely
isolated from everything else since but
it's autonomous in the sense that it has
control over its own destiny most
companies that claim to do Agile are not
doing that you go into an agile
so-called agile shop and the first thing
that I see in a lot of them is somebody
with the title of project manager
in charge of the agile team well agile
teams don't have project managers
because they're self-organizing first of
all there's no there's nobody to manage
them they manage themselves let's put it
that way is that they manage their own
work so if you have somebody that has
the role of a project manager or the
role of a team manager or the role of a
line manager that's taking away from the
self-organization which is Central to
the way that agile teams have to work
but companies of course don't want the
teams to be fully autonomous because
they don't trust them is we are working
in a oh a 19th century taylorist model
where the the
software development is seen as a
assembly line kind of operation where
the people on the assembly line are
inherently lazy and competent workers
and you have to have managers watching
over them in order to make sure that
they get work done and that's not the
way that the real world works it's
certainly not the way that the software
development World works and it's
certainly not agile is agile centers on
people and if you're not treating your
people well then you're not working in a
natural way
so the other thing about project
managers which is equally important is
that more and more now in the agile
world the whole notion of a project is
considered a bad idea in other words
instead of working on projects we're
working on products on the entire
product
so uh you try and get work done how do
you do that well you look at a agile
team that's working in the proper way
you have a bunch of so-called user
stories but what are users stories user
stories are nothing but very short
descriptions of what your users do in
the real world to get their own work
done
because they need to accomplish
something
so you grab one of these user stories
and you implement it well how do you
organize that you organize it around the
product you look at the product as a
whole and you say what do we need to do
or put it back put it in a better way
what can they what can users not do now
that they need to do in order to make
the product a better product
and
the
um the focus is entirely Pro on the
product as a whole not on projects right
individual projects are just a little
corner of the product where
um the you can't you can't see the big
picture
so there aren't any projects in an agile
system there's just the product and
every story I suppose you could look at
as a miniature project but every story
is its own thing
um so if there are no products or if
there are no projects rather than what
exactly is a project manager going to
manage
and the answer is well there's nothing
for them to manage so uh but as I said
you go into these companies that think
that they're agile and there's project
managers all over the place they're like
they're like cockroaches it's just when
you think you've got them all stamped
out another thousand of them come out
from under the sink so we really don't
want to have that kind of situation
so that brings me to the next of
Orwell's points also written on the
ministry of information which is
ignorance's strength
so ignorance is strength what does that
mean well I have I'm sorry about the
reflection here well you can you can
read it so we'll just leave it where it
is
um ignorance is his strength is another
important aspect of the way agile has
gone wrong
um the idea here is that the agile
industrial complex people want people to
be ignorant they want people to believe
they're party lying because they can't
sell certificates people don't believe
their party line so this notion of you
are strong by not knowing too much about
what's going on is that something that
the the certificate people are actually
pushing pretty hard
um the people who are pushing scrum
don't want you to know that there's more
to Agile than scrum because what are
they going to sell if they if agile is a
big thing and they're a very small piece
of it in the corner so they're trying to
convince people that the non-agile thing
is actually the agile thing
the entire agile industrial complex to
use Fowler's term is is is focused on
doing exactly that and again you see a
lot of examples of that
um scrum scrum ink comes to mind
immediately right what they're peddling
is not agile
um just take Jeff Sutherland's latest
book twice the work at half the time
that's a appallingly bad title for
something that's supposed to be agile
agile is not about work it's not about
how much output you have it's not about
producing twice as much stuff
producing twice the garbage and half the
time buys nobody anything
so the idea that agile should somehow be
doing twice as much work in less time is
just craziness
is not about output is what agile is
about is value what agile is about is
writing software and getting it into our
users hands and the thing that we're
getting into our users hands is
something that they find valuable it's
something that lets them get something
done that they couldn't get done before
so that's got nothing to do with really
how fast we do it that we want it
quickly we want to do it fast
um it has to do with how valuable it is
to the people who are ultimately buying
our software
um now let me say as an aside here stand
aside let's give it as an aside
um the the speed is is a factor is the
way that all agile systems work and I'll
talk more about this in a second is is
uh by getting feedback feedback is an
essential part of working in a natural
way so we build small things
and we deploy them we get them to our
users hands and then we get feedback
from them
and then we use that feedback to make
what we just built better everything is
done incrementally in small small
increments that feedback loop has to be
very tight and in fact in a fully agile
shop you will be measuring the feedback
loop in minutes or hours not even in
days is that you'll be working on
something at your keyboard and you will
um walk up to or not walk up but you'll
you'll be peering at the keyboard going
oh gosh is this right or not and you'll
say hey Fred come over here take a look
at this and somebody who actually
understands the domain ideally a
customer will literally come over and
take a look at it and tell you whether
you're on the right track or not that's
fast feedback
feedback to a larger user Community well
uh maybe once or twice a day you'll push
some something into
um into production in other words you'll
just check it in you check the code in
as a side effect of that a cicd pipeline
will wake up and execute a whole bunch
of tests and if the automated tests pass
will literally push it to the user so
once or twice a day there's a new
version in the user's hands everybody's
heard that statistic about Amazon
pushing stuff out to the users once
every 11 seconds
um that's not that the teams are pushing
out every 11 seconds so the team is
pushing things out maybe once a day but
there's a lot of teams in Amazon so you
put them all together and there's stuff
being pushed out very quickly but the
point here is that that feedback loop is
really really really fast or it has to
be so you need to be working in such a
way that you can get feedback in a
timely fashion and that the speed is a
factor there but the speed at which we
generate output is not particularly
important from the normal management
sense right our idea is not to push more
junk out to the users the idea is to get
value to the users in small increments
so
the the
um
Next Issue then though is that people
come in and they try and push this
ignorance of strength Thing by kind of
deliberately teaching people the wrong
things now I I have to say as an aside
that this isn't strictly speaking true
is that I know uh several extremely good
strong approaches for example is that
they don't follow the party line as they
come in and they talk to people about
agile and then they talk about how scrum
can help them do things in a natural way
and that's a perfectly reasonable way to
approach scrum so I don't much like
scrum but if you're working in the right
kind of Corporation the people who run
the corporation will like it is that
it's uh it provides a familiar layer
around agility that that makes the
people that are running things happy so
if they're happy that I'm happy that's
okay but if you don't treat scrum as
being just a small piece of agile you
haven't done anybody a favor
unfortunately all too many of the people
in the scrum industrial complex are are
teaching these classes as if scrum is
agile as if they're the same thing and
they're not and that's actually
deliberately preaching a kind of
ignorance is that you ignorance is not
strength is you need to know a lot about
a lot of things other than scrum in
order to be effective at scrum because
scrum is a lightweight rapper around
agile and if you don't know agile you
can't do scrub it's that simple
so we have a problem
um the other thing that you see in the
ignition strength problem is you go into
a company and everybody's doing scrum
every team in the company is doing
exactly the same thing in the worst
possible situation every team in the
company starts their Sprint on Wednesday
and the Sprint's last exactly two weeks
and the Sprints are all over on a
Wednesday and the teams are just
merchanting and lockstep doing exactly
the same thing and there's a there's a
some company level office making sure
that everybody is is doing scrum by the
book and that that's the opposite of
being agile
when everybody's marching and lock stuff
like that you cannot be rigid and agile
at the same time it's just not possible
so
if I go into a company and I see that
everybody is doing the same thing if
everybody in the company is doing scrum
that tells me right off the bat that
it's not an agile company because your
teams are self-organizing I mentioned
self-organizing a moment ago well one of
the things that goes with
self-organization is the notion that the
teams get to decide how they do the work
and if you look at a fully agile company
the individual teams will all be working
in slightly different ways you know look
at Spotify for example there's several
agile processes scattered across the
whole organization
and there's some some scrum teams that's
fine but there are a lot of teams that
aren't doing scrum there are a lot of
teams that are doing variations on scrum
um there are one day Sprints there are
one week Sprints there are two week
Sprints
um there are no Sprints at all and the
teams that are using different kinds of
processes something that's more linear
like kanbam and the point here is that
if you're self-organizing that's what
you expect to see
so if agile teams are self-organizing
teams the fact that they're all doing
we're all doing the same thing well
that's that's telling me that we don't
actually have a agile organization
so Marching In lockstep is kind of
really a bad thing as I said you cannot
be rigid about process and agile
flexible at the same time it's just not
really it just really doesn't work that
way so the third thing
that
Orwell had was the the notion that
freedom is slavery
and freedom of slavery is uh is uh it's
another interesting term it's the basic
idea that oral was trying to push was
that if you were truly free to do things
that that was working against you that
you could not live a fulfilled life if
you actually had freedom in order to
have freedom in order to have something
that's fulfilling there has to be
structure and that structure has to be
imposed by the state
well of course
the situation I was just describing
inside an agile shop is exactly that
it's the stages the company and the
company is imposing process on you you
don't have any real Freedom right in an
organization like that you can't say I
don't like scrum I'm not going to do it
is that they'll just fire you and the
the
um so what they're saying is that true
freedom is a kind of slavery because
it's chaos if we had true Freedom we'd
have chaos is the way that's presented
and that's of course not the way it
works is that when you have truly
autonomous teams that doesn't mean that
they are working alone in a locked room
and not talking to anybody we're all
adults and we're all adults who want to
do the best job we possibly can so if
you have independent teams
they understand that the work they're
doing depends on what the other teams
are doing so the teams talk to each
other
and by the same token the the
um the people on the teams talk to each
other there's a lot of conversations
going on
so the point is is that you don't need
to have a process forcing everybody to
March and locks up in order to
coordinate and have a coherent system in
the larger sense of the word system for
getting work done
um the the
company full of adults will do that just
fine without having to without having to
be forced if you will so
the the problem then is this attitude of
you know my God we cannot let the teams
manage themselves how is that going to
work we have to keep control and if
you're doing that again you're not doing
things in a natural way because the
teams are self-organizing but that gets
us into the freedom of slavery we can't
give the teams Freedom not real freedom
right now again if you look at a real
agile organization the teams have huge
amounts of autonomy
um the teams are in charge of their own
composition they get to decide who's on
the team and who's on them uh teams will
do their own hiring
um teams won't do firing usually because
there are legal issues associated with
firing but a team can certainly decide
that they don't want to work with
somebody anymore and say to the to the
so-called human resources department
don't get me started on the word
resources used to mean human being but
they'll say to the human resources
department
um we can't work with this guy so find
some team that can work with him better
that's different than firing that's just
saying we the team can't work with him
but that doesn't mean that he's not
competent doesn't mean that he can't
work with anybody it just means that
there's a personality conflict or
something that's preventing it from
happening with us but the point is is
the teams are in charge of that uh the
teams have the freedom to decide how
they're going to work the freedom the
teams have the freedom to decide what
they're going to work on
so you have a big product backlog that
has a list of all of the things that
need to get done it's sorted in order of
value to the customer
now
ideally you're pulling things off of
that backlog in value order but they're
a perfectly good technical reasons to
not do that sometime because the teams
will look at that backlog and they'll
say you know the third thing on the list
if we do that first
we'll be able to do this first and
second things much more quickly
so if that's the case of course that's
the way you want to do the work so the
teams make that decision as they look at
the backlog and they say I want to work
on that one even if it isn't the one on
the top is that one of the huge
dysfunctions I see in a lot of fake
agile pseudo scrum shops is the PO the
product owner has turned into some kind
of manager who's assigning work to the
teams you must do this and that's not
the way it works is that in a in uh when
you have freedom when you have a fully
self-organizing situation the teams get
to decide what they're going to work on
but we're all grown-ups we're all adults
is that nobody is going to work on
something that's going to damage the
company we're not we're going to work on
the things that are most valuable to the
customer
so they're always constraints let's put
it that way and as adults we understand
that those constraints are there and we
work around them is that's fine
so
the issue issue then is that we don't
have the freedom we need we need the
freedom to invent processes we need the
freedom to be agile we need the freedom
to look at what we're doing and improve
it we need the freedom to make product
decisions right and to talk about agile
and speed the we need that fast feedback
loop well how does that work well the
way that works is that you give
something you put into your users hands
and then you talk to them
and then they come back and say well
this is okay but we really need this
change and then you make the change
right then if you have to get permission
from somebody to make a product level
change then you're not being agile
anymore so the teams have to be able to
make lots of decisions which are often
made in centralized ways and these
companies that are not working in actual
agile ways and that's a that's a big
problem right is that the the team is
empowered to do its own work it's
trusted to do its own work
um of course there's also a level of
fear there right is that if you have a
control and a control Focus management
hierarchy the people in management kind
of understand that they're not actually
doing anything useful so when they start
hearing the teams managing their own
work they start thinking so what about
me I'm a manager if the teams are
managing their own work what am I going
to do and that's a perfectly legitimate
fear is that if you look at fully agile
organizations there isn't much in the
way of of middle management so the one
has to think of something else to do in
that kind of situation and clearly they
they worry about that is that when I
work as an agile coach when I work as a
what I typically do when I do Agile work
is I don't I I often work at the team
level where I'll sit down with the teams
and literally pair with people and and
programmer and stuff Hands-On but more
often than not I'm working up at the
executive level where I'm coming in and
I'm looking at an organization and I'm
saying well what's wrong here where is
it were you agile were you not agile and
how can we fix that one of the first
things you have to do in order to
successfully transition to Agile is take
care of the people who don't have
anything to do in an agile world all
those middle managers who are afraid of
their jobs quite justifiably if if you
don't help them they're going to be
fighting tooth and nail to prevent agile
from happening and if half the company
is working hard to prevent agile from
happening it's never going to happen
believe me so the companies that
transition successfully they talk to
people they say you know uh the the this
job is not going to be here anymore the
job that you have that doesn't mean that
you're not going to be here anymore but
it means that the job you're doing is
going to change so uh we have some
choices here you can learn how to do the
new job that's fine
um you can decide you don't want to have
anything to do with it which is fine too
in which case we will actively help you
find another job right not kick you out
on the street you're on your own but
we'll keep paying you until you find
another job somewhere that uh this will
be satisfying we'll be gratifying to you
so you need to help the people in the
middle in order to be able to move
forward
the the you can't just ignore people
right so there's another Central aspect
of agility is that agile is a very
people focused they
um the other thing that I see a lot in
terms of the freedom of slavery is this
in the real world argument this
statement that well that's all well and
good but that's kind of Ivory Tower
thinking and it in the real world we
can't do that and that's sort of a
nonsensical argument is it what what do
they mean by real world in my real world
you can do it because I see people do it
it works
um in their real world you can't do it
because they've never experienced
anything other than what they've
experienced which is usually a tightly
controlled focused organization
um that's not working in any kind of
agile way and has no no hope of ever
being able to work in any kind of
natural way so the issue here then is
that the actual real world agile works
just fine right there are a lot of big
companies that do things in agile ways
Spotify of course is the poster child of
agility but
um you have Banks ANC bank and um in
Australia New Zealand uh they're medical
companies medtronics Viva the NASA does
things in a natural way there's plenty
of retail organizations that are doing
and things in a natural way it's a Home
Depot for example
um I know the CTO at Kohl's who's moving
them very much into a true agile way of
doing things and um so it's agility
actually works in the real world it just
doesn't work in the real world of the
people who are objecting to it
so the company that one works for is not
the real world
so that finally gets us to the scrum is
agile part which I've really been
talking about all along so I don't need
that I know that I even have to write it
down
because scrum is not agile they're not
the same thing
um scrum is uh is a
from my point of view what scrum is is
it's a wrapper around agile that makes
it more palatable to people that don't
actually want to be agile is that it
provides uh uh structured controlled
environment that appeals to companies
that are used to structured and
controlled environments but it has
nothing to do with agility or to put in
another way
um going back to that original book on
agile so Ken schwabber and Mike Doodle's
original book are not on agile but on
scrum
where their notion was that scrum is
something that you can do alongside XP
in order to act in order to make XP more
business-like right that was their the
way they were pushing scrum
um
that can work but the problem is that
agile works right XP extreme programming
works fine
and scrum plus XP works fine and in fact
scrum without XP doesn't work at all but
more importantly XP without scrum works
just fine
so if that's the case I ask myself what
value is Scrum adding to the to the
picture and I can't find any really
so it's a technique that that a bunch of
management things that make sense to
some managers but it's certainly not
necessary if you're going to do things
in a natural way and when these these
bad trainers come along and they say
well scrum is agile or even we're safe
is agile right the scaled agile
so-called scaled agile framework is
agile
um they're lying to you it's not true
because these are all kind of rappers
around agility safe is a replacement for
agility safe is not an agile process at
all it's a big complicated bunch of
rules that you have to have to follow to
the letter mandates what all the
meetings look like and all these well
don't get me started I could do it an
hour on what's wrong with safe
um safe might be a perfectly good
process but it's not an agile process
because agile has to be agile it has to
be flexible it has to
um the people who are doing it have to
have the flexibility to work in ways
that they think are effective and if you
start making changes to the way you're
working you're not doing safe or scrum
anymore
so no technique that mandates the way
that you work is a is an agile technique
it just it just doesn't work that way
so agile is all about flexibility
is that um if you look at safe if you
look at scrum there is no flexibility
there in the scrum guide it says
specifically that scrum is defined by
the scrum guide in its entirety and that
if you are not doing scrum as defined by
the scrum guide well then you're just
not doing scrum
so it's very rigid framework it says
exactly what you have to do and if you
don't do exactly what it says then
you're not doing scram well as I said
earlier you cannot be rigid and agile at
the same time it's just not possible
so um
the other issue which I think is an
important one is a lesson that comes out
of the lean manufacturing world
now I'll bring up lean with a little bit
of trepidation is that we are not
working in factories
and there's a tendency sometimes to have
people talk about things that do work in
factories as if we can apply those
Concepts directly to software
development and have it work but the
fact is that software development is is
a very different thing than building a
car and simply because something does
work in a factory does not mean that
it's going to work for us doing software
on the other hand there are a lot of
things in lean that are really really
valuable in the software world one of
the key things is the notion of the team
being in charge of the work that's
something that came out of lean thinking
is that if you look at a Toyota factory
for example every team gets to decide
how it's going to do whatever it does at
its Workstation
and
that sort of control is built into the
culture of the way things work now the
the what I want to bring up here is the
numi plant in used to be in Fremont
California down where the Tesla plant is
now new United Motors was a joint effort
between Toyota and General Motors and
they were building cars and they were
doing that using very very lean if you
will agile techniques
um the plant started out as one of the
least effective car factories on the
planet it was the huge absentee rates uh
they were not productive at all there
were huge numbers of defects coming out
of the cars that were being produced
there and Toyota moved in and within a
couple years it had become one of the
best manufacturing plants in the in the
you can't see it but I have a dog down
here who's bugging Nissan we'll reach
down and pay him occasionally but the
the um uh the
issue here is that that transition
happened because they were applying the
principles now one of those lean
principles again key one is that the
people working on the teams get to
decide how they are going to do their
own work
and the the there are some things that
happen in lean that don't happen in
agile typically for example uh there's a
lot of documentation a lot of process
documentation that happens as part of
the Toyota's process that you tend to
not see in the agile world that's fine
it's just a natural difference between
the two approaches but the important
thing is the teams decide how they do
their own work so what happened right
the point of this story is rambling on
here but the point of the story is that
GM didn't understand that at all
is that what GM did is they said oh the
teams are working in a way that's very
very effective and they've documented it
they've written everything down all
there's all these details about exactly
what they do so they took that
documentation and they put it in a box
and they flew back to Detroit and they
said to the factories in Detroit you
will now work exactly the way we're
working in Fremont you will do what this
documentation said and it was a complete
utter disaster
I can tell
that's not true your hair is clean
I'm I'm hearing you guys talk should I
be
well anyway it was a complete disaster
so the point here is that the the
um
processes don't transfer is you can't
take a process that was developed in one
place and use it in another now strong
let's look at scrum
Ken schwabber had a team back in around
2000 that was very effective team and
that team was doing something which came
to be called scrum they developed their
own practice they developed their own
process
and it worked great for them
but you cannot transfer that process out
of Ken's team any more than you can take
a process on a workstation an assembly
line and transfer it to another assembly
line practices do not transfer
what does transfer our values and that's
the key issue here is that agile is
defined by a set of values and teams to
be effective in an agile way have to
develop their own processes in such a
way that they I hate to use the word
conform but they align with the common
values that you see across all agile
organizations
so that the values are what's important
it's the values that can transfer it's
the principles that transfer the actual
way in which you do the work that does
not transfer at all that's something
that has to be uh developed by the teams
that are doing the work so you look at
the agile Manifesto the agile Manifesto
really defines what is agile and what is
not and you look at the agile Manifesto
and the fact is that that it's entirely
values and principles
you know 12 principles four values
nothing else actually one of the
principles is also a practice
only one though right the one the one
principle that is actually a practice is
uh retrospectives right is that the
agile Manifesto says that periodically
you need to stop stop what you're doing
and look around and assess the way that
you do things and change the way that
you do things in order to make them
better
um the the only change I would make to
that is that I believe in the lean
notion of continuous Improvement I don't
think you should stop every two weeks
and do a retrospective I think you
should be constantly looking at what
you're doing things and fixing them is
that it's a continuous process from my
point of view it's not something that
happens periodically on some schedule
so
the only practice in other words that's
in there is continuous Improvement but
continuous Improvement is also a
cultural value you can't do continuous
Improvement if you're not working in a
culture that sets things up so that it
values that improvement work if again
you have one of these organizations
that's making everybody March and
lockstep there is no culture of
continuous Improvement in that kind of
organization at all
so or there's no way to have a common a
common culture in that kind of
organization and all
so the basic idea here then is that um
things are not going to transfer and the
scrum is agile it's just nonsense right
because it's saying we have a solution
right one of the one of the um good
indicator of this that I really found
kind of repulsive to be honest is that
back when the covid-19
uh was at its worst where the hospitals
were overflowing and people were dying
and people were having to be triaged
into getting health care or not Jeff
Sutherland got onto Twitter and he said
the hospitals that are helping people
are doing scrum
and if the hospitals that where people
are dying would do scrum people wouldn't
die and that's just repulsive to me it's
just not true is that he took that quote
that tweet down within about 20 minutes
of putting it up but I I think he
actually believed that so the point here
is that this notion that um that the
framework rules right the scrum is
what's important and if we all do strum
all our all our problems will be solved
that's just a nonsensical notion uh that
has to do with selling scrum
certificates that has nothing at all to
do with actual agility
so
let's talk for a moment then about what
what agile actually is are we doing for
time here
let's talk for a moment about what
actually what agile actually is
um first of all if you're going to be
agile people have to be first
so that's the first order of business
people have to be first
so self-organization is an indication of
that people get to decide how they work
at the center of the Notions of agility
is the notion of trust right is that you
have to be able to trust people to get
the job done you trust people to work in
the way that they need to work you trust
people to spend money in ways that make
sense there's a story around Spotify
about how
um they all an entire team was working
with another team in New York a team in
Sweden was working with a team in New
York and the team in Europe decided that
they needed to actually get together and
have some face-to-face time with the
people in New York and they just all
bought plane tickets and went to New
York they didn't ask anybody there was
no permission there was no hierarchy
that you had to go up and down in order
to get approval they just did it they'd
all had company credit cards they bought
plane tickets they organized for hotels
and they just went
so that's what Pro that's what trust is
that's what people putting people first
is if you don't trust the teams to do
the work you can't move fast enough if
you have to ask permission it slows you
down
and our goal here then is to produce
software
as quickly as possible but we want the
software to be right we want it to be
value valuable so that's the next
important value right the working
software is all that matters
what we're trying to do and by working I
don't mean it just barely works I mean
it does something valuable and it works
well high quality well written
well-engineered
software with a good architecture in it
that's what working means to me
and
the rate at which you can produce
working software is really the only
metric that matters right are we getting
working software into our user sense if
you are not delivering you are not agile
so if you're doing scrum and you're only
delivering once every two weeks that's
too too long I think you need to be
pushing stuff out to your users faster
the next value we work collaboratively
agile organizations cannot work if
people are isolated into little silos
working alone this is a big deal
nowadays in the covet world is the all
too often working from home has come to
me and I'm going to work in my own
personal Silo I won't talk to anybody
else all day or maybe once or twice a
day I'll communicate with other people
but otherwise I'm working alone that's
not a team that's a bunch of individuals
working separately talking occasionally
agile work is truly collaborative now
you can collaborate on Zoom is that I do
my programming workshops with people on
Zoom all the time and it works great
so this is not covet forcing us to do it
this is just not thinking in an agile
way you need to work collaboratively
uh communication is an essential part of
this
is that if you are not communicating
with uh with each other you cannot be
flexible enough
so communication also means you know you
have to communicate with communicate
with your customers communication is a
constant process you are constantly
talking to the people that you're
working with you are constantly talking
to your customers you are constantly
getting feedback all of this has to do
with conversation so there is an
underlying conversation through the
whole system that
um is essential to being agile
welcoming change of course you have to
welcome change in order to be agile
because
um that's an agility is about but
what that really means is that we learn
as we work
the key concept here is we learn as we
work so as we're working we're learning
things and we want to incorporate that
learning into the way into the way we
work and and into the things we build as
soon as we learn it not months from now
but right now
so in order to put it another way all
plans fail and the reason plans fail is
because we are learning if you're if
you're not learning or rather the it's
the learning that um that changes the
plan
um technical Excellence another
characteristic of all agile
organizations is that if you don't have
a good architecture if your code is not
high quality you simply can't be agile
because it slows you down too much if
you need to make a small change if you
can't make something that small change
very very quickly then you just simply
can't work in an agile way
um assessment right I was talking about
the the only thing that they have in the
agile Manifesto that really matters is
the notion of of a regular assessment
and regular assessment is an essential
part of again being agile right is that
you have to be able to uh be flexible
about the way the work you work you have
to be looking at what is working and
what's not working and you always need
to be amplifying the good and phasing
out the bad you always need to be moving
things in the direction of being more
effective
so
I don't know if anybody noticed but what
I just went through is basically the
agile Manifesto
so the real issue about whether you want
to be agile or not is you are aligning
with the values in the agile Manifesto
and you know sometimes you see that uh
incorporated into a something's a little
bit easier to remember right the XP for
example is the XP values are what
communication Simplicity feedback
courage that's a big one courage right
is that agile is a radical departure
from what we're doing it's really
revolutionary and if you don't have a
certain amount of Courage you're never
going to make that work and then finally
respect for the people that are doing
the work trust for people that are doing
the work so you can take all of the
things I was just discussing and kind of
concentrated down into a set of five
five keywords if you will but the the
point here is that
um all of the things I were just talking
about that's what makes a company agile
and all of the other junk
all of the processes all the garbage is
in scrum right all the product owners
and scrum Masters and Sprints and all
that junk none of that is part of being
agile
none of it as those are things that you
might come up with in order to implement
some of the things I was just talking
about but those are secondary and they
will change because if you're being
agile you're flexible about the way that
you do the work and you're constantly
improving it so those those ways of
doing things are going to change
so of course there's a lot more to
agility than what I can talk about in 45
minutes or so or 50 minutes or so and
the the
um
I obviously can't talk about that now
there's a lot to learn I have a reading
list on my website I'll put the URL up
here
um solo.com
reading surprisingly
no long reading list a whole bunch of
books that you can read in order to get
better at this
but the point is is that if you have the
values and if you follow the principles
what you're going to end up with is
something that works in a very agile way